Events Explorer (#11323)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/events/explorer/_index.md

The Events explorer displays all event types by default. You can filter your events by facets or search queries.

### Event Side Panel

{{< img src="events/explorer/event-side-panel.png" alt="Shows how clicking a row in the Events explorer opens the event side panel" >}}

Clicking a row in the Events explorer opens the event side panel. It shows all the information relative to an event. 

### Attributes Tab

{{< img src="events/explorer/event-attribute.png" alt="An example events attribute tab" >}}

We display event attributes as JSON. You can click on an attribute to add or exclude it from the existing query, or add a column for this attribute. You can normalize enrich event attributes with processing pipelines.

### Options

You can use the *Options* panel to customize your events explorer:

- Adjust the columns displayed.
- Select list density depending on your needs.
- Show absolute or relative timestamp - An absolute timestamp displays the difference between two periods of time. A relative timestamp expresses the absolute change as a percentage that the two periods of time represents.
- Show or hide tags in your results.
- Show or hide the top timeline graph.

> ## Time frame

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Time range
```

> The time range appears directly under the search bar as a timeline. This feature allows you to display events in the explorer or analytics within a given period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A time range appears directly under the search bar as a timeline. This feature allows you to display events in the Explorer or Analytics within a given time period.
```

> Quickly change the time range by selecting a preset range from the dropdown (or entering a custom time frame)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the time range by selecting a preset range from the dropdown, or by entering a custom time range.
```

> All of the search parameters are contained within the URL. So, you can share your view by sharing the URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because all search parameters are contained within the URL, you can share your view by sharing the URL.
```

## Search syntax

> Events search uses [log search syntax][1], for example, `Source:github OR chef`. Events search includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Events search uses the [logs search syntax][1]: for example, `source:(github OR chef)`. Like logs search, events search includes:
```

> - Use both `AND` and `OR` operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use of both `AND` and `OR` operators
```

> - Use wildcards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use of wildcards
```

- Escape characters

> - Search within attributes with “@” prefix

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Search within attributes with the `@` prefix
```

### Full-text

Full-text search works on all keywords provided in the search query after applying filters. Full-text search looks inside the event text, title, tags, users who commented on the event, hostnames, and devices tied to the event.

### Filters

Target specific event properties using these prefixes:

`source:github,chef`           
: Show events from GitHub OR Chef.

`host:i-0ade23e6,db.myapp.com` 
: Show events from i-0ade23e6 OR db.myapp.com.

`service:kafka`                
: Show events from the `kafka` service.

`status:error`                 
: Show events with an error status (supports: `error`, `warning`, `success`).

`role:`                        
: 

`availability-zone:us-east-1a` 
: Show events in the `us-east-1a` AWS availability zone (AZ).

`container_id:foo`             
: Show events from the container with the ID `foo`.

`@evt.name:foo`                
: Show the event named `foo`.

> ### Set Up Facets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set up facets
```

> After being collected, your Events attributes can be indexed as facets or measures to be accessible for your context creation and analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After your events attributes are collected, Datadog indexes these attributes as facets or measures to be accessible for your content creation and analytics.
```

A facet displays the distinct members of an attribute or a tag and provides basic analytics, such as the number of events represented. Facets allow you to pivot or filter your datasets based on a given attribute. To filter, select the values that you want to see.

{{< img src="events/explorer/facets-location.png" alt="Shows that the facets are on the left side of the screen next to the menu." >}}

> ### Create a Facet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a facet
```

> To create a facet, user can use the “ADD Facet” button in facet left-side panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a facet, use the “Add a facet” button in the left side panel.
```

> Once you add the facet, the value of this attribute is stored for all new views, and you can use it in the search bar and facet panels as well as to group by in event monitors and graph widgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you add the facet, the value of this attribute is stored for all new views, and you can use it in the search bar and facet panels. You can also use it to group by in event monitors and graph widgets.
```

## Notifications

> Datadog supports `@notifications` in the message of events when posted by the API, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog supports `@notifications` in the messages of events when posted by the API. For example:
```

`@all`                                  
: Sends a notification to all members of your organization.

`@john`                                 
: Notifies the user named `john`.

`@test@example.com`                     
: Sends an email to `test@example.com`.

`@slack-<SLACK_ACCOUNT>-<CHANNEL_NAME>` 
: Posts the event or graph to the specified Slack channel.

`@webhook`                              
: Alerts or triggers the webhook. See the [blog post on webhooks][2].

## Event Analytics

> Event Analytics extends the Events Explorer page with views data aggregation and split capabilities for troubleshooting and monitoring. You can control:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Event Analytics extends the Events Explorer page with views, data aggregation, and split capabilities for troubleshooting and monitoring. You can control:
```

- The query that filters the set of views to analyze.
- The dimensions over which to split data.
- The visualization method for aggregates and splits.

From an analytics visualization, you can, additionally:
- Create a widget in a dashboard out of that visualization.

> - Export the visualization into a notebook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Export the visualization into a notebook.
```

> ### Build an Analytics Query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Build an analytics query
```

Use the query to control what’s displayed in your Events Analytics.

1. Choose an attribute or tag to graph, and then add it as a facet. Graphing a facet displays the unique count of the variable.
    {{< img src="events/explorer/split-graph.png" alt="Shows the list of facets that can be graphed." >}}

> 2. Use a facet to split your graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use a facet to split your graph.
```

    {{< img src="events/explorer/facet-to-graph.png" alt="Shows the list of facets that can be graphed." >}}

> 3. Choose the time interval for your graph. Changing the global timeframe changes the list of available timestep values. You can display the results as timeseries, table or toplist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Choose the time interval for your graph. Changing the global timeframe changes the list of available timestep values. You can display the results as a timeseries, table, or toplist.
```

    {{< img src="events/explorer/time-interval.png" alt="Shows the list of possible time intervals, including the default, 5 seconds." >}}
4. Choose to display either the X top or bottom values according to the selected measure.

>     {{< img src="events/explorer/display-values.png" alt="Choose whether to display the values from the top or from the bottom." >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< img src="events/explorer/display-values.png" alt="Choose to display the values from the top or from the bottom." >}}
```
